Clerk Elements (Beta) - Initial docs (#890)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/elements/reference/common.mdx

By default, `<Connection>` will be rendered as an unstyled `<button>`.

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name       | Type                                                          | Description                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `asChild` | `boolean` (optional) | If `true`, `<Connection>` will render as its child element, passing along any necessary props. Default: `false` |
| `name`     | `string`                                                      | Name of the social connection to render.    |

### Examples {{ toc: false }}

#### Basic

You can enrich this example by providing an [`<Icon>`](#icon) to display the social connection's logo.

```tsx filename="page.tsx" {3-5}
<SignIn.Root>
  <SignIn.Step name="start">
    <Clerk.Connection name="google">
      Sign in with Google
    </Clerk.Connection>
  </SignIn.Step>
</SignIn.Root>
```

## `<Field>`

> `<Field>` is used to associate its child elements with a specific `<Input>`. It automatically handles unique ID generation and associating the contained `<Label>` and `<Input>` elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<Field>` is used to associate its child elements with a specific `<Input>`. It automatically handles unique ID generation and associating the contained `<Label>` and `<Input>` elements.
```
```suggestion
Associates its child elements with a specific `<Input>`. Also automatically generates unique IDs and associates child `<Label>` and `<Input>` elements with each other.
```

| `name`     | `string`                                                      | Name for form field, will be used to associate all underlying field elements.    |
| `alwaysShow`     | `boolean` (optional)                                                      | When `true`, the field will always be rendered, regardless of its state. By default, a field is hidden if it's optional or if it's a filled-out required field. Default: `false`    |
| `children` | `(state: 'success' \| 'error' \| 'warning' \| 'info' \| 'idle') => React.ReactNode` (optional) | Provide a function as children and access the field's state. |

### Examples {{ toc: false }}

#### Basic

Place common components like [`<Input>`](#input), [`<FieldError>`](#field-error), or [`<Label>`](#label) inside `<Field>`.

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="unique-name">{/* Your content */}</Clerk.Field>
```

#### Function as children

The `state` you can access here is the same as in [`<FieldState>`](#field-state).

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="unique-name">
  {(state) => <p>Field's state is: {state}</p>}
</Clerk.Field>
```

## `<FieldError>`

> `<FieldError>` renders error messages associated with a specific `<Field>`. By default, the error's message will be rendered in an unstyled `<span>`. Optionally, the `children` prop accepts a function to completely customize rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renders error messages associated with a specific `<Field>`. By default, the error's message will be rendered in an unstyled `<span>`. Optionally, the `children` prop accepts a function to customize rendering.
```

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name       | Type                                                                | Description                                                                                 |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name` | `string` (optional) | Used to target a specific field by name when rendering outside of a `<Field>` component. Default: Automatically inferred |
| `children` | `({ message: string, code: string }) => React.ReactNode` (optional) | Provide a function as children and access the error's `message` and `code`. |

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `<FieldError>` usage {{ toc: false }}
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If the `<Field>` is in an error state, `<FieldError>` will display its message.

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="unique-name">
  <Clerk.FieldError />
</Clerk.Field>
```

#### Function as children

> By having access to both `message` and `code` you can enrich the incoming `message` or localize it by checking for specific `code`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By having access to both `message` and `code` you can enrich the incoming `message` or localize it by checking for a specific `code`.
```

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="unique-name">
  <Clerk.FieldError>
    {({ message, code }) => (
      <span>
        {message} ({code})
      </span>
    )}
  </Clerk.FieldError>
</Clerk.Field>
```

## `<FieldState>`

> Programmatically access additional information of the wrapping `<Field>`. Useful for implementing animations when direct access to the state value is necessary. By default, you'll have access to `state`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables you to programmatically access additional information from the parent `<Field>` component. By default, you'll have access to `state`. Useful for implementing animations if you need direct access to the `state` value.
```

If you use `<Input type="password" validatePassword>` additional information in the form of `message` and `codes` is provided.

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name       | Type                                               | Description                                         |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `children` | `(args: { state: 'success' \| 'error' \| 'warning' \| 'info' \| 'idle'; message: string \| undefined; codes: ErrorMessageKey[] \| undefined }) => React.ReactNode` | Use this function to access the field's state. Optionally, information regarding password validation is given. |

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `<FieldState>` usage {{ toc: false }}
```

Author: ```suggestion
### Usage {{ toc: false }}
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Initially, the `<Input>` will have a `state` of `idle` until the user interacts with the input. Depending on the user's input, the `state` will change to `success` or `error`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<Input>` will start with a `state` of `idle` until the user interacts with it. Depending on the user's input, the `state` will change to `success` or `error`.
```

```tsx {4-6}
<Clerk.Field name="emailAddress">
  <Clerk.Label>Email</Clerk.Label>
  <Clerk.Input />
  <Clerk.FieldState>
    {({ state }) => <p>Field's state is: {state}</p>}
  </Clerk.FieldState>
</Clerk.Field>
```

#### `<Input type="password" validatePassword>`

> If you're using [`<Input type="password" validatePassword>`](#input-type-password) the `<FieldState>`'s children function receives additional arguments: `codes` and `message`.
> 
> Initially, the `<Input>` will have a `state` of `idle` until the user interacts with the input. Depending on the user's input, the `state` will change to `'success' | 'error' | 'warning' | 'info'`.
> 
> `message` is the english, standardized message generated for the current state of the input. The `message` is generated through `codes`. By having access to `codes` yourself you can customize or localize the returned `message`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using [`<Input type="password" validatePassword>`](#input-type-password) the `<FieldState>`'s children function receives additional arguments:

- `message` – The standardized English message generated for the current state of the input. This message is generated based on the codes associated with the `<FieldState>`.
- `codes` –  The codes associated with the `<FieldState>`. You can use these codes to return custom `message` or localize its contents.

Initially, the `<Input>` will have a `state` of `idle` until the user interacts with the input. Depending on the user's input, the `state` will change to `'success' | 'error' | 'warning' | 'info'`.
```

Swapped paragraphs and some words around and tried to add a slightly clearer explanation of the relationship between `codes` and `message`. Feel like I got it wrong though. Is my change accurate?

```tsx {4-12}
<Clerk.Field name="password">
  <Clerk.Label>Password</Clerk.Label>
  <Clerk.Input type="password" validatePassword />
  <Clerk.FieldState>
    {({ state, codes, message }) => (
      <div>
        <pre>Field state: {state}</pre>
        <pre>Field msg: {message}</pre>
        <pre>Codes: {codes?.join(', ')}</pre>
      </div>
    )}
  </Clerk.FieldState>
</Clerk.Field>
```

## `<GlobalError />`

> Render errors that are returned from Clerk's API, but that are not associated with a specific form field. By default, will render the error's message wrapped in a `<div>`. Optionally, the `children` prop accepts a function to completely customize rendering. Must be placed **inside** components like `<SignIn>`/`<SignUp>` to have access to the underlying form state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renders errors that are returned from Clerk's API but are not associated with a specific form field. By default, renders the error's message wrapped in a `<div>`. Optionally, the `children` prop accepts a function to customize rendering. **Must be a child of components like `<SignIn>`/`<SignUp>` to have access to the underlying form state**.
```

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name       | Type                                                                | Description                                                                                 |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `asChild` | `boolean` (optional) | If `true`, `<GlobalError>` will render as its child element, passing along any necessary props. Default: `false` |

> | `code` | `string` (optional) | Forces the message with the matching code to be shown. This is useful when using server-side validation. Default: `undefined` |

Reviewer: Do we have a list of the possible `code` values that we can link to? Is it just HTTP status codes?

Author: This is definitely something we should add, at the moment we need to pull it from our backend API. Let's follow up with the concrete values 👍

| `children` | `({ message: string, code: string }) => React.ReactNode` (optional) | Provide a function as children and access the error's `message` and `code`. |

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Author: ```suggestion
### Usage {{ toc: false }}
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: Could you update the rest of these `### Examples` headers to `<Element> usage` please? 🙏

And remove the `#### Basic` headers

> 
> #### Basic

Author: ```suggestion
```

```tsx filename="page.tsx"
<SignIn.Root>
  <Clerk.GlobalError />
</SignIn.Root>
```

#### Function as children

By having access to both `message` and `code` you can enrich the incoming `message` or localize it by checking for specific `code`.

```tsx filename="page.tsx"
<SignIn.Root>
  <Clerk.GlobalError>
    {({ message, code }) => (
      <span>
        {message} ({code})
      </span>
    )}
  </Clerk.GlobalError>
</SignIn.Root>
```

## `<Icon>`

> `<Icon>` **must** be used inside [`<Connection>`](#connection). By default, `<Icon>` will render as an `<img>` element with the `src` pointing to the logo of the currently used `<Connection>`.
> 
> <Callout type="info">
> 
> The purpose of `<Icon>` is to provide quick access to Clerk's social connections logos which you can use while setting up your application. Most likely you wish to customize their look or use your own icon library. Hence the scope of `<Icon>` is small and customizability limited by design. If you need further control, please consider using solutions like [Iconify](https://iconify.design/getting-started/).
> 
> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, renders as an `<img>` element with the logo of the parent `<Connection>` as the value of its `src` prop. **Must be a child of [`<Connection>`](#connection)**. 

<Callout type="info">

`<Icon>` is designed to give you access to Clerk's social connection logos and has intentionally limited customizability. If you need more customizability, consider options such as [Iconify](https://iconify.design/getting-started/).

</Callout>
```
Just cleanup/simplification

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name       | Type                                                          | Description                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `asChild` | `boolean` (optional) | If `true`, `<Icon>` will render as its child element, passing along any necessary props. Default: `false` |

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `<Icon>` usage {{ toc: false }}
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> `<Icon>` will render as the Google logo here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to render the Google social connection logo with `<Icon>`:
```

```tsx filename="page.tsx" {4}
<SignIn.Root>
  <SignIn.Step name="start">
    <Clerk.Connection name="google">
      <Clerk.Icon />
      Sign in with Google
    </Clerk.Connection>
  </SignIn.Step>
</SignIn.Root>
```

## `<Input>`

> Handles rendering of `<input />` elements within Clerk's flows. Supports special `type` prop values to render input types that are unique to authentication and user management flows. Additional props will be passed through to the [`<input />` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handles rendering of [`<input />` elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input) within Clerk's flows. Supports special `type` prop values to render input types that are unique to authentication and user management flows. Additional props will be passed through to the `<input />`.

<Callout type="info">
For screen reader accessibility, always associate a [`<Label>`](#label) with your `<Input>` elements.
</Callout>
```
Moved the link to the first mention of `<input>`

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name    | Type                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `asChild` | `boolean` (optional)                                  | If true, `<Input>` will render as its child element, passing along any necessary props. Default: `false`                                                             |

> | `name`    | `string` (optional)                                   | Name for form field, will be used to associate all underlying field elements. Can be automatically inferred from the name on the `<Field>` component. Default: Automatically inferred |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name`    | `string` (optional)                                   | Name for the form field. Will be used to associate all underlying field elements. Can be automatically inferred from the name on the `<Field>` component. Default: `"Automatically inferred"` |
```

Is `"Automatically inferred"` the default string value here?

Author: It is not, per the sentence before, the default value is automatically inferred based on the field name.

Reviewer: Ohhh, I see now. The value of the `name` prop on the `Field` component

> | `type`    | `text \| email \| tel \| otp* \| password` (optional) | Type for the input. Default: `text`                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `type`    | `'text' \| 'email' \| 'tel' \| 'otp'* \| 'password'` (optional) | Type for the input. Default: `'text'`                                                                                                                   |
```
Ignore this suggestion if those values are not meant to be strings

> _Values denoted with \* are unique Clerk input types._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">
_Values denoted with `*` are unique Clerk input types._
</Callout>
```

> The following data attributes are also added to the underlying Element:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following data attributes are also added to the underlying element:
```

- `data-valid` - If the field state is valid
- `data-invalid` - If the field state is invalid (has an associated error)
- `date-state` - Refers to the [`<FieldState>`](#field-state) status

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `<Input>` usage {{ toc: false }}
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Make sure to always include a [`<Label>`](#label) to correctly announce your `<Input>` to screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We can delete this line, as I added it under the first paragraph of the `<Input>` section above

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="identifier">
  <Clerk.Label>Email</Label>
  <Clerk.Input type="email" />
</Clerk.Field>
```

> ## `<Input type="otp">`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `<Input type="otp">`
```

I think an H3 that shows up in the TOC makes sense here

> A special type used to render an input that accepts a one-time passcode (OTP). If the corresponding `<Field>` has `name="code"`, the contained `<Input>` will default to the `otp` type. Only numbers are accepted as inputs, and the default max length is 6.
> 
> By default, a single text `<input />` will be rendered. If provided, the `render` prop will be called for each character currently present in the input. This enables UI patterns where an OTP input is visually represented as N distinct elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A special type used to render an input that accepts a one-time passcode (OTP). If the corresponding `<Field>` has `name="code"`, the child `<Input>` will default to the `otp` type. Only numbers are accepted as inputs, and the default max length is 6.

By default, a single text `<input />` will be rendered. If provided, the `render` prop will be called for each character present in the input. This enables UI patterns where an OTP input is visually represented as N distinct elements.
```

> ### Properties {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Properties
```
H4s don't show up

| `passwordManagerOffset` | `number` (optional)  | Password managers place their icon inside an `<input />`. This default behaviour is not desirable when you use the render prop to display N distinct element. With this prop you can increase the width of the `<input />` so that the icon is rendered outside the OTP inputs. Default: `40` |
| `render`              | `({ value, status }: { value: string; status: 'none' \| 'selected' \| 'cursor' \| 'hovered' }) => React.ReactNode` (optional) | A render prop function that receives the `value` and `status` of each character. `value` is the character to render, `status` is the current status of the input character.                                                                                                                           |

The properties `asChild` and `name` from [`<Input>`](#input) also apply to `<Input type="otp">`.

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
####  `<Input type="otp">` usage
```

> #### Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

A single `<input type="text" />` input that only allows 6 numbers to be entered. Once the user filled in all information, the form is automatically submitted.

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="code">
  <Clerk.Input type="otp" autoSubmit />
</Clerk.Field>
```

#### Segmented

You can render each number into an individual item and animate its appearance depending on the `status`.

```tsx
<Clerk.Field name="code">
  <Clerk.Input
    type="otp"
    passwordManagerOffset={40}
    render={({ value, status }) => <span data-status={status}>{value}</span>}
  />
</Clerk.Field>
```

> ## `<Input type="password">`

Author: ```suggestion
### `<Input type="password">`
```

A thin wrapper around the [`<input type="password" />` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/password) to provide password validation logic. You can define [password rules](/docs/security/password-protection) in your Clerk dashboard and according to these rules your users' passwords are checked. By default, this validation is turned off and you need to set a `validatePassword` prop.

Once activated, you can access the instant validation feedback through [`<FieldState>`](#field-state) and display rich information to your users.

> ### Properties {{ toc: false }}

Author: ```suggestion
#### Properties
```

| Name    | Type                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `validatePassword` | `boolean` (optional)                                  | If true, password validation according to your [password rules](/docs/security/password-protection) is happening while the user types in their password. Default: `false`                                                             |

The following data attributes are also added to the underlying Element if `validatePassword` is `true`:

- `data-has-passed-validation` - If the password has passed the validation or not

The existing data attributes from [`<Input>`](#input) are also present on this Element.

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}
> 
> #### Basic

Author: ```suggestion
#### Usage

```

  </Clerk.Label>
</Clerk.Field>
```

## `<Loading>`

Access the loading state of a chosen scope. Scope can refer to a step, a `<Connection>`, or the global loading state. The global loading state is `true` when any of the other scopes are loading.

### Properties {{ toc: false }}

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `children` | `(isLoading: boolean) => React.ReactNode` | A function that receives `isLoading` as an argument. `isLoading` is a boolean that indicates if the current scope is loading or not. |
| `scope` | `string` (optional) | Specify which loading state to access. Can be a step, a connection, or the global loading state. If `<Loading>` is used outside a `<Step>`, the scope will default to `'global'`. If used inside a `<Step>` the scope will default to the current step. For external authentication providers, the scope needs to be manually defined in the format of `provider:<provider name>`. Default: `'global'` |

Relying on the auto-inference of the scope can be helpful when using `<Loading>` in shared components, which might be referenced inside different steps. You won't need to manually pass the scope as a prop to your shared component.

> ### Examples {{ toc: false }}
> 
> #### Basic

Author: ```suggestion
### Usage {{ toc: false }}
```
